README.md, before:

# Book Social Service Application (Java, Spring Boot, Angular)

This repository represents a Book Application where multiple users can be created, each capable of adding their own books and associated information. The application follows a microservices architecture, comprising several components and leveraging technologies like Java, Spring Boot, Kafka, with the frontend developed using Angular. Currently, it supports features such as adding new users, editing book information, displaying a list of books with their images, deleting users and their data, and data validation.

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
4. [Port Conventions](#port-conventions)
5. [Service Ports](#service-ports)
6. [Networks](#networks)

## Overview

- **Book Service**: Java application developed using Spring Boot for managing books.
- **User Service**: Java application developed using Spring Boot for managing users.
- **Frontend**: User interface developed using Angular for the entire application.
- **Kafka**: A distributed event streaming platform used in conjunction with Zookeeper.
- **Zookeeper**: A centralized service for maintaining configuration information, naming, providing distributed synchronization, and providing group services.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and npm (comes bundled with Node.js, needed for frontend only)
- Angular CLI (For frontend development): Install it globally using `npm install -g @angular/cli`

## Getting Started

To run the entire application stack (book-service, user-service, and frontend) with their respective databases, use docker-compose.

Clone the Repository (if you haven’t already):
    
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/book-application.git
   cd book-application
   ```

## Port Conventions
We use specific ranges of ports for different types of services:

| Service Type   | Port Range |
|----------------|------------|
| Frontend       | `808x`     |
| Backend (APIs) | `818x`     |
| Databases      | `828x`     |
| Debug          | `838x`     |
| Kafka          | `9092`     |
| Zookeeper      | `2181`     |

## Service Ports

Here is the mapping of each service to its accessible port:

| Service Name                | External Port | Internal Port |
|-----------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Frontend                    | 8080          | 80            |
| Book Service API            | 8181          | 8080          |
| User Service API            | 8182          | 8080          |
| PostgreSQL for Book Service | 8281          | 5432          |
| PostgreSQL for User Service | 8282          | 5432          |
| Kafka                       | 9092          | 9093          |
| Zookeeper                   | 2181          | 2181          |

## Networks
- `book-network`: For book service and its database.
- `user-network`: For user service and its database.
- `book-user-network`: For services that interact between books and users.
- `kafka-network`: For Kafka and Zookeeper interactions.

You can access the frontend at http://localhost:8080.

## Stopping services

   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   ```

Commit message:

v86 - update README.md in accordance with new features. Added app screenshot

README.md, after:

# Book Social Service Application (Java / Spring Boot / Angular)

![Application Screenshot](resources%2Fapplication_screenshot.png)

## Overview

This repository represents a Book Application where multiple users can be created, each capable of adding their own books and associated information. The application follows a microservices architecture, comprising several components and leveraging technologies like Java, Spring Boot, Kafka, with the frontend developed using Angular. It supports features such as adding new users, editing book information, displaying a list of books with their images, deleting users and their data, and data validation. Continuous Integration (CI) via GitHub Actions, comprehensive logging, and unit testing enhance the application's reliability and maintainability.

- **Book Service**: Java application developed using Spring Boot for managing books.
- **User Service**: Java application developed using Spring Boot for managing users.
- **Frontend**: User interface developed using Angular for the entire application.
- **Kafka**: A distributed event streaming platform used in conjunction with Zookeeper.
- **Zookeeper**: A centralized service for maintaining configuration information, naming, providing distributed synchronization, and providing group services.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and npm (comes bundled with Node.js, needed for frontend only)
- Angular CLI (For frontend development): Install it globally using `npm install -g @angular/cli`

## Getting Started

To run the entire application stack (book-service, user-service, and frontend) with their respective databases, use docker-compose.

Clone the Repository (if you haven’t already):
    
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/book-application.git
   cd book-application
   ```

## Port Conventions
We use specific ranges of ports for different types of services:

| Service Type   | Port Range |
|----------------|------------|
| Frontend       | `808x`     |
| Backend (APIs) | `818x`     |
| Databases      | `828x`     |
| Debug          | `838x`     |
| Kafka          | `9092`     |
| Zookeeper      | `2181`     |

## Service Ports

Here is the mapping of each service to its accessible port:

| Service Name                | External Port | Internal Port |
|-----------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Frontend                    | 8080          | 80            |
| Book Service API            | 8181          | 8080          |
| User Service API            | 8182          | 8080          |
| PostgreSQL for Book Service | 8281          | 5432          |
| PostgreSQL for User Service | 8282          | 5432          |
| Kafka                       | 9092          | 9093          |
| Zookeeper                   | 2181          | 2181          |

## Networks
- `book-network`: For book service and its database.
- `user-network`: For user service and its database.
- `book-user-network`: For services that interact between books and users.
- `kafka-network`: For Kafka and Zookeeper interactions.

## Continuous Integration and Testing

The project is configured with GitHub Actions for Continuous Integration, automatically running tests on every push and pull request to ensure code integrity and functionality. Every backend service is accompanied by a suite of unit tests, verifying the correctness of the application logic.

You can access the frontend at http://localhost:8080 to check application.

## Logging

Comprehensive logging has been implemented across all services, enhancing the observability and debuggability of the application. This feature is crucial for monitoring the application's health and troubleshooting potential issues.

## Stopping services

   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   ```
